doc/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.md, before:

---
stage: Manage
group: Access
info: "To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments"
type: reference, howto
---

# Project access tokens

NOTE:
Project access tokens are supported for self-managed instances on Free and above. They are also supported on GitLab SaaS Premium and above (excluding [trial licenses](https://about.gitlab.com/free-trial/)).

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/210181) in GitLab 13.0.
> - [Became available on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/235765) in GitLab 13.5 for paid groups only.
> - [Feature flag removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/235765) in GitLab 13.5.

WARNING:
This feature might not be available to you. Check the **version history** note above for details.

Project access tokens are scoped to a project and can be used to authenticate with the [GitLab API](../../../api/index.md#personalproject-access-tokens). You can also use project access tokens with Git to authenticate over HTTP.

Project access tokens expire on the date you define, at midnight UTC.

For examples of how you can use a project access token to authenticate with the API, see the following section from our [API Docs](../../../api/index.md#personalproject-access-tokens).

## Creating a project access token

1. Log in to GitLab.
1. Navigate to the project you would like to create an access token for.
1. In the **Settings** menu choose **Access Tokens**.
1. Choose a name and optional expiry date for the token.
1. Choose a role for the token.
1. Choose the [desired scopes](#limiting-scopes-of-a-project-access-token).
1. Click the **Create project access token** button.
1. Save the project access token somewhere safe. Once you leave or refresh
   the page, you don't have access to it again.

## Project bot users

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/210181) in GitLab 13.0.
> - [Excluded from license seat use](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/223695) in GitLab 13.5.

Project bot users are [GitLab-created service accounts](../../../subscriptions/self_managed/index.md#billable-users) and do not count as licensed seats.

For each project access token created, a bot user is created and added to the project with
the [specified level permissions](../../permissions.md#project-members-permissions).

For the bot:

- The name is set to the name of the token.
- The username is set to `project_{project_id}_bot` for the first access token, such as `project_123_bot`.
- The username is set to `project_{project_id}_bot{bot_count}` for further access tokens, such as `project_123_bot1`.

API calls made with a project access token are associated with the corresponding bot user.

These bot users are included in a project's **Project information > Members** list but cannot be modified. Also, a bot
user cannot be added to any other project.

- The username is set to `project_{project_id}_bot` for the first access token, such as `project_123_bot`.
- The username is set to `project_{project_id}_bot{bot_count}` for further access tokens, such as `project_123_bot1`.

When the project access token is [revoked](#revoking-a-project-access-token) the bot user is deleted
and all records are moved to a system-wide user with the username "Ghost User". For more
information, see [Associated Records](../../profile/account/delete_account.md#associated-records).

## Revoking a project access token

At any time, you can revoke any project access token by clicking the
respective **Revoke** button in **Settings > Access Tokens**.

## Limiting scopes of a project access token

Project access tokens can be created with one or more scopes that allow various
actions that a given token can perform. The available scopes are depicted in
the following table.

| Scope              |  Description |
| ------------------ |  ----------- |
| `api`              | Grants complete read/write access to the scoped project API, including the [Package Registry](../../packages/package_registry/index.md). |
| `read_api`         | Grants read access to the scoped project API, including the [Package Registry](../../packages/package_registry/index.md). |
| `read_registry`    | Allows read-access (pull) to [container registry](../../packages/container_registry/index.md) images if a project is private and authorization is required. |
| `write_registry`   | Allows write-access (push) to [container registry](../../packages/container_registry/index.md). |
| `read_repository`  | Allows read-only access (pull) to the repository. |
| `write_repository` | Allows read-write access (pull, push) to the repository. |

## Enable or disable project access token creation

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/287707) in GitLab 13.11.

You may enable or disable project access token creation for all projects in a group in **Group > Settings > General > Permissions, LFS, 2FA > Allow project access token creation**.
Even when creation is disabled, you can still use and revoke existing project access tokens.
This setting is available only on top-level groups.

Commit message:

Add note that any username can be used for HTTP auth

doc/user/project/settings/project_access_tokens.md, after:

---
stage: Manage
group: Access
info: "To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments"
type: reference, howto
---

# Project access tokens

NOTE:
Project access tokens are supported for self-managed instances on Free and above. They are also supported on GitLab SaaS Premium and above (excluding [trial licenses](https://about.gitlab.com/free-trial/)).

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/210181) in GitLab 13.0.
> - [Became available on GitLab.com](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/235765) in GitLab 13.5 for paid groups only.
> - [Feature flag removed](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/235765) in GitLab 13.5.

WARNING:
This feature might not be available to you. Check the **version history** note above for details.

Project access tokens are scoped to a project and can be used to authenticate with the [GitLab API](../../../api/index.md#personalproject-access-tokens). You can also use project access tokens with Git to authenticate over HTTP (If you are asked for a username when authenticating over HTTP, you can use any non-empty value as only the token is expected to be passed). 

Project access tokens expire on the date you define, at midnight UTC.

For examples of how you can use a project access token to authenticate with the API, see the following section from our [API Docs](../../../api/index.md#personalproject-access-tokens).

## Creating a project access token

1. Log in to GitLab.
1. Navigate to the project you would like to create an access token for.
1. In the **Settings** menu choose **Access Tokens**.
1. Choose a name and optional expiry date for the token.
1. Choose a role for the token.
1. Choose the [desired scopes](#limiting-scopes-of-a-project-access-token).
1. Click the **Create project access token** button.
1. Save the project access token somewhere safe. Once you leave or refresh
   the page, you don't have access to it again.

## Project bot users

> - [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/210181) in GitLab 13.0.
> - [Excluded from license seat use](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/223695) in GitLab 13.5.

Project bot users are [GitLab-created service accounts](../../../subscriptions/self_managed/index.md#billable-users) and do not count as licensed seats.

For each project access token created, a bot user is created and added to the project with
the [specified level permissions](../../permissions.md#project-members-permissions).

For the bot:

- The name is set to the name of the token.
- The username is set to `project_{project_id}_bot` for the first access token, such as `project_123_bot`.
- The username is set to `project_{project_id}_bot{bot_count}` for further access tokens, such as `project_123_bot1`.

API calls made with a project access token are associated with the corresponding bot user.

These bot users are included in a project's **Project information > Members** list but cannot be modified. Also, a bot
user cannot be added to any other project.

- The username is set to `project_{project_id}_bot` for the first access token, such as `project_123_bot`.
- The username is set to `project_{project_id}_bot{bot_count}` for further access tokens, such as `project_123_bot1`.

When the project access token is [revoked](#revoking-a-project-access-token) the bot user is deleted
and all records are moved to a system-wide user with the username "Ghost User". For more
information, see [Associated Records](../../profile/account/delete_account.md#associated-records).

## Revoking a project access token

At any time, you can revoke any project access token by clicking the
respective **Revoke** button in **Settings > Access Tokens**.

## Limiting scopes of a project access token

Project access tokens can be created with one or more scopes that allow various
actions that a given token can perform. The available scopes are depicted in
the following table.

| Scope              |  Description |
| ------------------ |  ----------- |
| `api`              | Grants complete read/write access to the scoped project API, including the [Package Registry](../../packages/package_registry/index.md). |
| `read_api`         | Grants read access to the scoped project API, including the [Package Registry](../../packages/package_registry/index.md). |
| `read_registry`    | Allows read-access (pull) to [container registry](../../packages/container_registry/index.md) images if a project is private and authorization is required. |
| `write_registry`   | Allows write-access (push) to [container registry](../../packages/container_registry/index.md). |
| `read_repository`  | Allows read-only access (pull) to the repository. |
| `write_repository` | Allows read-write access (pull, push) to the repository. |

## Enable or disable project access token creation

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/issues/287707) in GitLab 13.11.

You may enable or disable project access token creation for all projects in a group in **Group > Settings > General > Permissions, LFS, 2FA > Allow project access token creation**.
Even when creation is disabled, you can still use and revoke existing project access tokens.
This setting is available only on top-level groups.
