doc/development/documentation/structure.md, before:

---
stage: none
group: Style Guide
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: What to include in GitLab documentation pages.
---

# Documentation content types

At GitLab, we have not traditionally used types for our content. However, we are starting to
move in this direction, and we now use four primary content types:

- [Concept](#concept)
- [Task](#task)
- [Reference](#reference)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

Each page can contain multiple types. For example,
a page with the title `Pipelines` can include a concept and multiple tasks.
A page might also contain only one type. These pages are generally one of our
[other content types](#other-types-of-content).

## Concept

A concept introduces a single feature or concept.

A concept should answer the questions:

- What is this?
- Why would I use it?

Think of everything someone might want to know if they've never heard of this concept before.

Don't tell them **how** to do this thing. Tell them **what it is**.

If you start describing another concept, start a new concept and link to it.

Also, do not use **Overview** or **Introduction** for the title. Instead,
use a noun or phrase that someone would search for.

Concepts should be in this format:

```markdown
# Title (a noun, like "Widgets")

A paragraph that explains what this thing is.

Another paragraph that explains what this thing is.

Remember, if you start to describe about another concept, stop yourself.
Each concept should be about one concept only.
```

## Task

A task gives instructions for how to complete a procedure.

Tasks should be in this format:

```markdown
# Title (starts with an active verb, like "Create a widget" or "Delete a widget")

Do this task when you want to...

Prerequisites (optional):

- Thing 1
- Thing 2
- Thing 3

To do this task:

1. Location then action. (Go to this menu, then select this item.)
1. Another step.
1. Another step.

Task result (optional). Next steps (optional).
```

Here is an example.

```markdown
# Create an issue

Create an issue when you want to track bugs or future work.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Developer role for a project.

To create an issue:

1. On the top bar, select **Menu > Projects** and find your project.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Issues > List**.
1. In the top right corner, select **New issue**.
1. Complete the fields. (If you have reference content that lists each field, link to it here.)
1. Select **Create issue**.

The issue is created. You can view it by going to **Issues > List**.
```

If you have several tasks on a page that share prerequisites, you can use the title
**Prerequisites**, and link to it.

## Reference

Reference information should be in an easily-scannable format,
like a table or list. It's similar to a dictionary or encyclopedia entry.

```markdown
# Title (a noun, like "Pipeline settings" or "Administrator options")

Introductory sentence.

| Setting | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| **Name** | Descriptive sentence about the setting. |
```

If a feature or concept has its own prerequisites, you can use reference
content to create a **Prerequisites** header for the information.

## Troubleshooting

Troubleshooting can be one of two categories:

- **Troubleshooting task.** This information is written the same way as a [standard task](#task).
  For example, "Run debug tools" or "Verify syntax."
- **Troubleshooting reference.** This information has a specific format.

Troubleshooting reference information should be in this format:

```markdown
# Title (the error message or a description of it)

You might get an error that states <error message>.

This issue occurs when...

The workaround is...
```

For the heading:

- Consider including at least a partial error message.
- Use fewer than 70 characters.

If you do not put the full error in the title, include it in the body text.

## Other types of content

There are other types of content in the GitLab documentation that don't
classify as one of the four primary [content types](#documentation-content-types).
These include:

- [Tutorials](#tutorials)
- [Get started pages](#get-started)
- [Topics and resources pages](#topics-and-resources-pages)

In most cases, these content types are on their own standalone page.

### Tutorials

A tutorial is an end-to-end walkthrough of a complex workflow or scenario.
It might include tasks across a variety of GitLab features, tools, and processes.
It does not cover core conceptual information.

Tutorials should be in this format:

```markdown
# Title (starts with "Tutorial:" followed by an active verb, like "Tutorial: create a website")

A paragraph that explains what the tutorial does, and the expected outcome.

Prerequisites (optional):

- Thing 1
- Thing 2
- Thing 3

## Step 1: do the first task

To do step 1:

1. First step.
2. Another step.
3. Another step.

## Step 2: do the second task

To do step 2:

1. First step.
2. Another step.
3. Another step.
```

### Get started

A get started page is a set of steps to help a user get set up
quickly to use a single GitLab feature or tool.
It might consist of more than one task.

Get started pages should be in this format:

```markdown
# Title ("Get started with <feature>")

Complete the following steps to ... .

1. First step.
1. Another step.
1. Another step.

If you need to add more than one task,
consider using subsections for each distinct task.
```

### Topics and resources pages

This is a page with a list of links that point to important sections
of documentation for a specific GitLab feature or tool.

We do not encourage the use of these types of pages.
Lists like this can get out of date quickly and offer little value to users.
We've included this type here because:

- There are existing pages in the documentation that follow this format,
  and they should be standardized.
- They can sometimes help navigate a complex section of the documentation.

If you come across a page like this
or you have to create one, use this format:

```markdown
# Title ("Topics and resources for <feature>")

Brief sentence to describe the feature.

Refer to these resources for more information about <this feature>:

- Link 1
- Link 2
- Link 3
```

## Help and feedback section

This section ([introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-docs/-/merge_requests/319) in GitLab 11.4)
is displayed at the end of each document and can be omitted by adding a key into
the front matter:

```yaml
---
feedback: false
---
```

The default is to leave it there. If you want to omit it from a document, you
must check with a technical writer before doing so.

### Disqus

We also have integrated the docs site with Disqus (introduced by
[!151](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-docs/-/merge_requests/151)),
allowing our users to post comments.

To omit only the comments from the feedback section, use the following key in
the front matter:

```yaml
---
comments: false
---
```

We're hiding comments only in main index pages, such as [the main documentation index](../../index.md),
since its content is too broad to comment on. Before omitting Disqus, you must
check with a technical writer.

Note that after adding `feedback: false` to the front matter, it will omit
Disqus, therefore, don't add both keys to the same document.

The click events in the feedback section are tracked with Google Tag Manager.
The conversions can be viewed on Google Analytics by navigating to
**Behavior > Events > Top events > docs**.

## Guidelines for good practices

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/36576/) in GitLab 13.2 as GitLab Development documentation.

*Good practice* examples demonstrate encouraged ways of writing code while
comparing with examples of practices to avoid. These examples are labeled as
*Bad* or *Good*. In GitLab development guidelines, when presenting the cases,
it's recommended to follow a *first-bad-then-good* strategy. First demonstrate
the *Bad* practice (how things *could* be done, which is often still working
code), and then how things *should* be done better, using a *Good* example. This
is typically an improved example of the same code.

Consider the following guidelines when offering examples:

- First, offer the *Bad* example, and then the *Good* one.
- When only one bad case and one good case is given, use the same code block.
- When more than one bad case or one good case is offered, use separated code
  blocks for each. With many examples being presented, a clear separation helps
  the reader to go directly to the good part. Consider offering an explanation
  (for example, a comment, or a link to a resource) on why something is bad
  practice.
- Better and best cases can be considered part of the good case(s) code block.
  In the same code block, precede each with comments: `# Better` and `# Best`.

Although the bad-then-good approach is acceptable for the GitLab development
guidelines, do not use it for user documentation. For user documentation, use
*Do* and *Don't*. For examples, see the [Pajamas Design System](https://design.gitlab.com/content/punctuation/).

Commit message:

Changed heading and added page/topic definition

doc/development/documentation/structure.md, after:

---
stage: none
group: Style Guide
info: To determine the technical writer assigned to the Stage/Group associated with this page, see https://about.gitlab.com/handbook/engineering/ux/technical-writing/#assignments
description: What to include in GitLab documentation pages.
---

# Documentation topic types

At GitLab, we have not traditionally used types for our content. However, we are starting to
move in this direction, and we now use four primary topic types:

- [Concept](#concept)
- [Task](#task)
- [Reference](#reference)
- [Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting)

In general, each page in our docset contains multiple topics. (Each heading indicates a new topic.)
Each topic on a page should be a specific topic type. For example,
a page with the title `Pipelines` can include topics that are concepts and tasks.

A page might also contain only one type of information. These pages are generally one of our
[other content types](#other-types-of-content).

## Concept

A concept introduces a single feature or concept.

A concept should answer the questions:

- What is this?
- Why would I use it?

Think of everything someone might want to know if they've never heard of this concept before.

Don't tell them **how** to do this thing. Tell them **what it is**.

If you start describing another concept, start a new concept and link to it.

Also, do not use **Overview** or **Introduction** for the title. Instead,
use a noun or phrase that someone would search for.

Concepts should be in this format:

```markdown
# Title (a noun, like "Widgets")

A paragraph that explains what this thing is.

Another paragraph that explains what this thing is.

Remember, if you start to describe about another concept, stop yourself.
Each concept should be about one concept only.
```

## Task

A task gives instructions for how to complete a procedure.

Tasks should be in this format:

```markdown
# Title (starts with an active verb, like "Create a widget" or "Delete a widget")

Do this task when you want to...

Prerequisites (optional):

- Thing 1
- Thing 2
- Thing 3

To do this task:

1. Location then action. (Go to this menu, then select this item.)
1. Another step.
1. Another step.

Task result (optional). Next steps (optional).
```

Here is an example.

```markdown
# Create an issue

Create an issue when you want to track bugs or future work.

Prerequisites:

- You must have at least the Developer role for a project.

To create an issue:

1. On the top bar, select **Menu > Projects** and find your project.
1. On the left sidebar, select **Issues > List**.
1. In the top right corner, select **New issue**.
1. Complete the fields. (If you have reference content that lists each field, link to it here.)
1. Select **Create issue**.

The issue is created. You can view it by going to **Issues > List**.
```

If you have several tasks on a page that share prerequisites, you can use the title
**Prerequisites**, and link to it.

## Reference

Reference information should be in an easily-scannable format,
like a table or list. It's similar to a dictionary or encyclopedia entry.

```markdown
# Title (a noun, like "Pipeline settings" or "Administrator options")

Introductory sentence.

| Setting | Description |
|---------|-------------|
| **Name** | Descriptive sentence about the setting. |
```

If a feature or concept has its own prerequisites, you can use reference
content to create a **Prerequisites** header for the information.

## Troubleshooting

Troubleshooting can be one of two categories:

- **Troubleshooting task.** This information is written the same way as a [standard task](#task).
  For example, "Run debug tools" or "Verify syntax."
- **Troubleshooting reference.** This information has a specific format.

Troubleshooting reference information should be in this format:

```markdown
# Title (the error message or a description of it)

You might get an error that states <error message>.

This issue occurs when...

The workaround is...
```

For the heading:

- Consider including at least a partial error message.
- Use fewer than 70 characters.

If you do not put the full error in the title, include it in the body text.

## Other types of content

There are other types of content in the GitLab documentation that don't
classify as one of the four primary [topic types](#documentation-topic-types).
These include:

- [Tutorials](#tutorials)
- [Get started pages](#get-started)
- [Topics and resources pages](#topics-and-resources-pages)

In most cases, these pages are standalone.

### Tutorials

A tutorial is an end-to-end walkthrough of a complex workflow or scenario.
It might include tasks across a variety of GitLab features, tools, and processes.
It does not cover core conceptual information.

Tutorials should be in this format:

```markdown
# Title (starts with "Tutorial:" followed by an active verb, like "Tutorial: create a website")

A paragraph that explains what the tutorial does, and the expected outcome.

Prerequisites (optional):

- Thing 1
- Thing 2
- Thing 3

## Step 1: do the first task

To do step 1:

1. First step.
2. Another step.
3. Another step.

## Step 2: do the second task

To do step 2:

1. First step.
2. Another step.
3. Another step.
```

### Get started

A get started page is a set of steps to help a user get set up
quickly to use a single GitLab feature or tool.
It might consist of more than one task.

Get started pages should be in this format:

```markdown
# Title ("Get started with <feature>")

Complete the following steps to ... .

1. First step.
1. Another step.
1. Another step.

If you need to add more than one task,
consider using subsections for each distinct task.
```

### Topics and resources pages

This is a page with a list of links that point to important sections
of documentation for a specific GitLab feature or tool.

We do not encourage the use of these types of pages.
Lists like this can get out of date quickly and offer little value to users.
We've included this type here because:

- There are existing pages in the documentation that follow this format,
  and they should be standardized.
- They can sometimes help navigate a complex section of the documentation.

If you come across a page like this
or you have to create one, use this format:

```markdown
# Title ("Topics and resources for <feature>")

Brief sentence to describe the feature.

Refer to these resources for more information about <this feature>:

- Link 1
- Link 2
- Link 3
```

## Help and feedback section

This section ([introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-docs/-/merge_requests/319) in GitLab 11.4)
is displayed at the end of each document and can be omitted by adding a key into
the front matter:

```yaml
---
feedback: false
---
```

The default is to leave it there. If you want to omit it from a document, you
must check with a technical writer before doing so.

### Disqus

We also have integrated the docs site with Disqus (introduced by
[!151](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab-docs/-/merge_requests/151)),
allowing our users to post comments.

To omit only the comments from the feedback section, use the following key in
the front matter:

```yaml
---
comments: false
---
```

We're hiding comments only in main index pages, such as [the main documentation index](../../index.md),
since its content is too broad to comment on. Before omitting Disqus, you must
check with a technical writer.

Note that after adding `feedback: false` to the front matter, it will omit
Disqus, therefore, don't add both keys to the same document.

The click events in the feedback section are tracked with Google Tag Manager.
The conversions can be viewed on Google Analytics by navigating to
**Behavior > Events > Top events > docs**.

## Guidelines for good practices

> [Introduced](https://gitlab.com/gitlab-org/gitlab/-/merge_requests/36576/) in GitLab 13.2 as GitLab Development documentation.

*Good practice* examples demonstrate encouraged ways of writing code while
comparing with examples of practices to avoid. These examples are labeled as
*Bad* or *Good*. In GitLab development guidelines, when presenting the cases,
it's recommended to follow a *first-bad-then-good* strategy. First demonstrate
the *Bad* practice (how things *could* be done, which is often still working
code), and then how things *should* be done better, using a *Good* example. This
is typically an improved example of the same code.

Consider the following guidelines when offering examples:

- First, offer the *Bad* example, and then the *Good* one.
- When only one bad case and one good case is given, use the same code block.
- When more than one bad case or one good case is offered, use separated code
  blocks for each. With many examples being presented, a clear separation helps
  the reader to go directly to the good part. Consider offering an explanation
  (for example, a comment, or a link to a resource) on why something is bad
  practice.
- Better and best cases can be considered part of the good case(s) code block.
  In the same code block, precede each with comments: `# Better` and `# Best`.

Although the bad-then-good approach is acceptable for the GitLab development
guidelines, do not use it for user documentation. For user documentation, use
*Do* and *Don't*. For examples, see the [Pajamas Design System](https://design.gitlab.com/content/punctuation/).
